okay hello welcome to the ipfs weekly
call but we get to see the cool things
that are happening in the ipfs community
and today Terry is going to talk about
proto school's launch before we get to
Terry's presentation which is the main
presentation today I would like to make
an announcement we have community calls
I can put that in the chat so we have
community calls every Thursday at 4:30
UTC time so if you're interested in
learning about what the community team
is doing how are we working to build
like stronger ties with everyone in ipfs
please join the more the merrier so I
will check to see if
there are any announcements it seems
like there are any announcements but
what I would like you to do if you're
part of this meeting if you can just put
your name in our notes that would immune
on our notes that'd be great so you have
a list of our participants alright um so
without further ado we are going to
start with the main presentation which
is going to be presented by Terry about
proto schools is very exciting I can't
leave to hear it
so Terry please take it away
you
okay can everybody hear me give me a
thumbs up
awesome I sound more like a human than a
mouse today but for those who missed my
last presentation I'm recovering from
laryngitis so my apologies for the
crackle here so I'm really excited to
introduce proto school and protists
school is an educational community that
teaches decentralized web protocols
tools concepts and we do it through
online tutorials and local chapter
events so you can see I have a deck here
for you but I'm actually going to jump
out to the website to show you some of
this so let's start with the online
tutorials and I will pop over to the
websites you can see that so the really
the heart of proto school is these
interactive tutorials almost all of
which use code challenges so as an
example this is kind of the introductory
lesson that we have to ipfs the first
one that really starts talking about
that and you see that you introduce a
new concept in each lesson and then
you're asking the user to complete a
code challenge so for example with this
one I see that my goal is to add a node
that has test 1 so when I try to do that
so let's say I do it like this and hit
submit
we're giving feedback to the user this
one is actually quite useful some of the
feedback is not as clear as that one and
then we try to submit again we see that
it works and we're invited to move on to
the next lesson so this is built in a
way that we can do the lessons right in
the browser and get feedback as we go
yes you may have noticed that it's also
caching our code as we go so if I return
to this page later in the same browser
I'll have the same stuff stored here or
I can reset the code and it makes it
really easy for people to follow along
and you'll actually see that there's
also a kind of status here of how far
along I am in my lessons you'll see
whether you've completed one or it's in
progress or so forth so we're really
excited about the like the format of the
website we have a few tutorials to start
with and I do just want to point out for
anyone who's not yet familiar with
or who are the decentralized web in
general or knows people who are still
trying to get their head around those
concepts this first lesson here on
decentralized data structures is new and
does not have any code challenges so
people who are not developers should be
able to walk through it and just get
some introduction into content addressee
and C IDs hashing those kinds of
concepts that make the decentralized
work and help explain why we'd want to
use it um so let me pop back over here
for one second
so you'll notice that the content that
we have right now on the website is
primarily about ipfs but this is meant
to be a site that's about the
decentralized web in general and various
protocols so whether that's IP fsip LD
limpia p multi formats file clean
projects beyond that we're really
interested in helping people understand
what's possible on the decentralized we
haven't given the tools they need to get
started enough in an environment that's
not intimidating this is the okay.there
lesson I mentioned one of the ways that
we can make this feel less intimidating
we think is with local chapters and
local events so we actually had our
first event on Friday and Denver local
chapters and around the world are
hosting live events that use those
tutorials as curricula but how four
mentors available for support on-site so
chapters operate independently but we
have sort of a support system in place
so each of them gets its own repo in our
org where it can share chapter info host
discussions list upcoming events and
that because of the structure of our
repo that also means that a chapter can
choose to use github pages to build a
website which will then end up on our
domain which is a nice feature that has
not yet been taken a gonna just um so
let me pop out for one second
actually I'll stay here so some ways you
can get involved and I'll have hopefully
a little bit of time for questions at
the end but a few things I'd really
invite everyone on this call to jail the
first is just explore the protocol
website and share some feedback so for
example if you're going through a
specific lesson at the bottom of the
page you'll see a customized link to
submit feedback that link knows what
page you're on it can help you start
filling out that issue also if you go
this is you see we're in the Pro Toto
school org and then the proto school dot
github I oh repo if you open a new issue
there are templates to help you do
something like gets lesson feedback
requested new feature report a bug and
suggest a new tutorial this is one of
the things we need help with is figuring
out what are those next pieces of
content one of the ones we're excited to
do next is a lesson that works with the
the file API so that people can see how
to manipulate files as opposed to just
seeing how to manipulate data objects so
that's one we're excited about but we're
open to everyone new suggestions for
tutorials and and volunteers who are
able to help us build those and you can
find information on the website under
the build tab about how that's how the
tutorials are built one of the biggest
tasks for people who are who are a game
is to start a local proto school chapter
but what does this entail it's important
to understand and what what you're
signing up for if you do that so as a
chapter organizer you'll be organizing a
local chapter events like I said using
the tutorials as curricula and providing
mentors if everybody could hit your mute
button that would be awesome please it
you can so organizing chapter of apps is
a big piece of this and you're running
those events independently with the
chapters where we're really committed to
making sure that our chapters have
autonomy to lead their events you have a
repo to maintain that's a great place to
use the issues as a place for
discussions within your chapter and you
can add essentially add the people who
come to your events as members of your
if your repo as a way to then
communicate them with easily share
announcements about events etc there is
an overarching code of conduct for proto
school to encourage us to create a
vibrant and inclusive community where
everyone's treated with with respects
and feels very welcome but as a chapter
organizer it's your responsibility to
make sure that your specific chapter
both the repo in the events has a code
of conduct that you're responsible for
enforcing and then this is optional but
highly recommended building the chapter
website as I mentioned with github pages
it would be very easy to do that and
host it at our domain but but I can
envision that there are sub chapter
organizers who will want to just use
their repo as the website just make a
nice complete readme use discussions
there there are some folks you might
already be running a meet-up for example
and we have ipfs meetup organizers
around the world who might just use the
repo and then link to their meetup page
as the place where events would be
announced so it's up to you the format
that you want to take with this but note
that that chapter website is make easier
but I get hub pages option and you can
find complete instructions for setting
up a chapter in our github repo and then
the other thing you can do is just help
spread the word so we're proto school on
Twitter I can help share the message and
extend our reach there I wanted to leave
some time for questions and also invite
Michael to jump in if he feels or
something I've missed Michael along with
me is one of our maintainer of the
project anything you want to say Michael
before we move on to questions nope all
right excellent
thank you yay okay now it's time for
questions um if you have a question you
just leave in a chat that'll be great
put your name in a chat yeah so the
first question we have in there sorry
the fall is Victor yeah Victor could you
please tell us what your question
I know we can read it but you say it
alone Victor's on mute his question is
whether proto school is supposed to
replace existing
IPSS meetups or whether they're
complementary and I'd say that they're
complementary so I think there are some
folks who are running ipfs meetups you
probably have guest speakers coming in
talking about a whole wide range of
subjects the in essence a proto school
event is going to be walking through one
of our tutorials with those mentors in
place so there's a great place for both
of these things if you run in ipfs
meetup maybe you'd want to have you know
every other month instead of having one
of those guest speakers coming in you're
using a proto school tutorial as your
curriculum so these are things that can
go together or not go together people
can host proto school events and use
Eventbrite to advertise them or just
advertise them on their repo so they
don't have to go hand-in-hand
hello oh yes sit-down workshops as
Michael mentioned Jim my question is is
part of proto school going to extend
beyond protocol lab sponsored
decentralized web projects for example
dad secure scuttlebutt yeah well okay I
was just gonna say like you know we one
of the reasons what we call the proto
school was so that it could really be
about any decentralized protocol I think
that like we we do eventually want to
have sort of a tree of curriculum where
you have some foundational knowledge and
then it you know branches off and goes
into different directions and some of
those will definitely go in the
direction of things that are not PLO
sponsored technologies I think it's
still sort of an open question though
about like what is the scope person's
like our current initial tutorial is
just about content address data
structures and sort of closes we're
talking about sort of CID is it's like a
way to build those content of your data
structures and so right now if you were
to add something for SSB for instance
you just wouldn't have like a root node
in that tree of knowledge and and and so
you'd be missing a lot of context there
but you know like if you wanted to add a
tutorial that
you know working with aetherium data
like or working with Bitcoin data or you
know eventually working with that data
because I Jim has even been working on
like a CID for further for the DAP
protocol right so as long as we we can
sort of fit it into that tree of
knowledge than were fully open to
technologies outside of protocol that
yeah if you have any suggestions open a
new issue with the template that's about
proposing a new tutorial and we can
start talking about ideas there Allen oh
I guess is more of a
I'm gonna question Dan sorry so I was
wondering are we going to be generating
everything on proto school for proto
school or will we be linking to external
resources that we think are curated
really really well
Michael stop me if you disagree but my
like the way I envision it is that we
will be building all of these tutorials
within the proto school site and as we
go we'll be adding some functionality so
for example right now you can't build a
tutorial that uses you know that lets
you upload a file and then manipulate it
but that's the next thing on the list is
to make this eye capable of doing that
with a place where I think external
links can help is that we want to keep
keep content brief right so linking from
a word out to an amazing description of
the concepts that's behind it things
like that I'm envisioning I haven't
envisions what you're describing Dan
Michael what's your take on that yeah I
mean like like you were saying there's a
lot of sort of good documentation work
happening and even planned in the future
around sort of ipfs and Falcone and a
bunch of other stuff so we don't want to
recreate all that documentation so we'll
definitely be linking out but I think
the sort of follow along tutorial stuff
we will keep that contained inside of
the same for the school site and not be
sort of linking out to somebody else
with follow a log tutorial there the
origins of a lot of these ideas come
from note school and like I worked a lot
on note school and really follow that
community that went along and one of the
challenges with note school was always
that like the content was so
disintermediated and so you couldn't
create like a very good tree of
curriculum because it wasn't clear how
these things connected to each other and
you really had no like you didn't have a
very good understanding of where people
were falling off in the process like
where they were learning something and
then tried to learn something else and
then weren't able to and so having
things all contained inside of this one
experience really helps with that and
also you know as we add all these
features like you know saving your code
because you come back to it and saving
like where you are in the torial like
Terry was saying before like we can't
really do that and create a unified
experience across like multiple websites
so we're trying to contain all of that
there I hope that answers your question
yes thank you
you know one thing sorry I'm sorry sorry
one other thing I forgot to mention as I
was walking through that is the way that
we have the repo setup allows the
organizers of various chapters to pool
their knowledge so for example Dan who's
on this call led our first meetup in
Denver on Friday and he might have
suggestions for other organizers about
what worked well and what didn't in that
in that experience so I'll just share my
screen for one more second and pop you
guys back into the repo just to make it
clear if anyone wants to check this out
so the org name is proto school and then
in here you'll see two repos pinned at
the top so proto school github Daioh is
the website code and that's where you
would go to look at the issues that
we've identified little tweaks we want
to make to the existing site or big
tweaks new lesson ideas etc but the
other main repo here is the organizing
one and that's where you're going to
find the information on how to start a
new chapter that's where you would open
an issue to request your new chapter and
then the other repos that you see here
are the repos for each of the existing
chapters so I will stop that share see
if we have lowest hello hello can you
hear me yes my name is dawn I like to
ask what about collaborations listening
different schools of from you know from
IPSS chapters all the way to other
schools colleges or educational centers
is that okay the clean it's definitely
okay it definitely it doesn't really
happen yet you know we just got
everything up but yeah yeah because you
did that yeah because in Hong Kong's
case it doesn't really gel well with
ipfs recently because news does anybody
know what happened in Hong Kong with ibn
ffs I just just just asked participants
I'll tell you if you don't know is that
there we know people lighten up it's in
in Hong Kong about about a week or two
ago know about like a at Christmastime
around Christmastime is that somebody
were throwing money out the window and
and the lobby of causing a lot that
mayhem in terms of a person was creating
fake file point and tarnishes then his
behavior tarnish the name of ipfs and i
was thinking what is the fastest way to
rebuild the image of ipfs in my region
just that's that's the thing so maybe
find some private organizations to
collaborate like that so that that's
definitely a broader question than we
can answer just with like protists cool
um but sorry yeah I mean if you want to
ping me directly like I'm working on a
bunch of the following community stuff
now as well and I'll connect SS are
definitely separate and then review
protocol review protocol really as being
a place to educate people on all of
these technologies not doing one so so
yeah there there may be a role to play
here but we should we should sort of
sync up offline about the best kind of
way to do that and you're pretty yeah
considering that for the financial
industry is a thing in Hong Kong it's
kind of our forte so there is a kind of
cross between ipfs and PowerPoint in our
region and we just put them in the same
basket so there might be a different
method of doing things
yeah let's let's plan to connect offline
about that I see that algorithm do you
want to share that on sure so I was just
thinking back to when I was doing no
school stuff and I remembered that what
no school had was like a place where it
was just actually just a github repo I
think with issues that you could post if
you were actually working on a tutorial
and you got stuck for whatever reason I
think you could just open an issue and
ask a question about it and there'd just
be people sort of patrolling that and
and kind of answering questions from
people who are actually doing the
tutorial
I just wondered if there was anything
like that planned or available so at the
moment the best thing to do in that
scenario is to click the link at the
bottom of your screen so as I said it's
customized so it will know which lesson
you're in and start filling in the issue
the challenge that we have right now is
with the content being so new we want to
take this step of distinguishing between
we did a bad job creating this lesson
it's super unclear let's fix the lesson
versus oh this person is confused which
if they're confused probably there's
something we could do better with the
lesson so if you drop a question there
in some cases the response might be
thank you for this feedback this is
great you're right it is confusing
here's how we sort you out but then
we'll go back and fix the lesson and
make it more clear
I don't know down the road about the
specific thing you're suggesting but at
the moment that's that's the best place
to do it Michael and I have a tight eye
on that main website repo which is where
those issues get logged so we'd be
catching those and asking other people
for help as we as we see stuff there and
please everyone should feel free to
follow watch the repo if you want to try
to help answer some of those questions
you're more than welcome to yeah we
actually had a conversation about this
very specific thing Ellen and like if
you if you look at each lesson at the
bottom it says if you're feeling stuck
like definitely say something here we
were deciding like does that go into a
separate repo or in the main repo right
now and basically it's going in the main
repo until there's enough of it and
we're confident enough that it it's not
the lessons problem but people are just
too beautiful
then it'll kind of then it will
eventually probably break off into its
own repo but it's actually a really nice
workflow because you know since
everything is integrated into one
website and we have all this knowledge
like when you click that link it
automatically fills out all the stuff
and they could have issue about which
lesson that you're on and everything so
it's a really really nice experience so
we
questions sorry just um if there are no
more questions we don't have
announcements today but um well I will
say is I am want to address Don's
concern about file corn in Hong Kong I'm
thinking about it this way
IPS lip p2p it is like the building
blocks and files coin is just one of the
many things that ipfs is used if you
really want to get more people out there
on they should number one look at proto
school proto schools a great start look
at the IP FS codebase and look at
awesome ipfs like there are many things
that we use IP FST's for and in terms of
it's like the building blocks and just
like getting it out there and
encouraging other people encouraging
students and encouraging community
members to use the IPS different API I
think that would be an excellent start I
do think that that would be a good start
if it's in the European and American
case but it's kind of a little bit
culturally different here and then
generally speaking we tend to be more
finance oriented or not I'm not saying
that we're all financed were in deal I'm
saying that we tend to put innovation
for the sake of the economy first so
this is why foul coin is the you know
the first and foremost of IPs FS
representation in that case in terms of
those nuances I think that conversation
is probably best taken offline I think
probably good point yeah I know there
are definitely student organizations in
Chinese universities that are using IP
FS and other technologies to like build
stuff but I think your point is valid
and it's something to take offline and
understood yeah but thank you everyone
for your comments thank you for